SIMPLE_SHELL                   User Commands                  Holberton School - January  2025

NAME
       simple_shell - a simple command line interpreter

SYNOPSIS
       simple_shell

DESCRIPTION
       simple_shell is a basic command line interpreter that executes commands
       read from standard input. It implements a subset of the functionality
       found in traditional Unix shells.

       The shell operates in two modes: interactive and non-interactive.

       Interactive Mode:
              When simple_shell is invoked without arguments and with its input
              connected to a terminal, it runs in interactive mode. In this mode,
              it displays a prompt ($) and waits for user input.

       Non-Interactive Mode:
              When simple_shell is invoked with standard input not connected to
              a terminal, it reads and executes commands without displaying a
              prompt.

COMMAND EXECUTION
       The shell executes commands in the following order:

       1. The command line is read and split into words using space, tab, and
          newline as delimiters.

       2. If the command starts with a / or ./, it is treated as an absolute or
          relative path.

       3. Otherwise, the shell searches for the command in the directories
          listed in the PATH environment variable.

       4. Built-in commands are executed directly by the shell.

       5. External commands are executed in a new process.

BUILTIN COMMANDS
       The following built-in commands are supported:

       exit [status]
              Exit the shell. If status is specified, it is used as the exit
              status; otherwise, the exit status of the last command is used.

       env    Print the current environment variables.

       setenv VARIABLE VALUE
              Set an environment variable. If the variable already exists, its
              value is updated.

       unsetenv VARIABLE
              Remove an environment variable.

ENVIRONMENT
       The shell uses the following environment variables:

       PATH   A colon-separated list of directories to search for commands.

EXIT STATUS
       The shell returns the exit status of the last command executed, or 127
       if the command was not found.

EXAMPLES
       Run a command:
              $ ls -l

       Set an environment variable:
              $ setenv MY_VAR hello

       Exit with specific status:
              $ exit 2

SIGNALS
       The shell handles the following signals:

       SIGINT (Ctrl-C)
              Interrupts the current foreground command.

FILES
       No configuration files are used.

AUTHOR
       Patrick MICHEL and Benjamin RISTORD

BUGS
       Report bugs to the project repository.


SIMPLE_SHELL -                  January 2025                  SIMPLE_SHELL